Online Figures 1-A1 and 1-A2
Plots showing the impact of running CIAlign cleaning functions with relaxed (R, green, left), moderate (M, blue, middle) and stringent (S, red, right) parameter values on alignments of nucleotide (Nt) and amino acid (AA) sequences simulated using either EvolvAGene (E) or INDELible (I) and aligned with a large number of different alignment tools. From left to right the y-axis of the subplots represents proportion of correctly aligned pairs of residues removed (identified by comparison with a benchmark alignment), proportion of total nucleotides (i.e. non-gap positions) removed, proportion of gaps removed, proportion of positions (gap or non-gap) removed. Alignment tools are shown arbitrarily in 1-A1 or 1-A2 to reduce image size.

Online Figures 1-B1 and 1-B2
Scatter plots showing the results of a linear regression analysis showing the impact of the total proportion of postiions removed on the proportion of correctly aligned residue pairs removed, for stringent (red), moderate (blue) and relaxed (green) CIAlign parameter values, for a large number of different alignment tools. The statistic m is the slope of the regression line. Alignment tools are shown arbitrarily in 1-B1 or 1-B2 to reduce image size.


Online Figures 1-C1 and 1-C2
Violin plots showing the distribution of normalised Robinson-Foulds distances (left column) and Quartet divergence (right column) between benchmark trees and test trees without running CIAlign cleaning functions (orange) and after running CIAlign with the three sets of parameter values, for trees based on simulated sequences generated with EvolvAGene (E) and INDELible (I), for nucleotide (Nt) and amino acid (AA) alignments generated using a large number of different alignment tools. Red and black lines show the median and mean respectively. Alignment tools are shown arbitrarily in 1-B1 or 1-B2 to reduce image size.


Online Figures 1-D1 and 1-D2
Density plots showing the distribution of the percentage identity between the input sequence to EvolvAGene and a consensus sequence based on an alignment of the simulated sequences generated by this tool, without running CIAlign (orange) and after running CIAlign cleaning functions with the three sets of parameter values, for a large number of different alignment tools. Alignment tools are shown arbitrarily in 1-B1 or 1-B2 to reduce image size.